add serverless-driver (#14612)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/serverless-driver-config.md

---

> title: Configure TiDB serverless driver (Beta)
> summary: Learn how to configure TiDB serverless driver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Configure TiDB Serverless Driver (Beta)
summary: Learn how to configure TiDB Serverless Driver.
```

---

> # Configure TiDB serverless driver (Beta)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configure TiDB Serverless Driver (Beta)
```

TiDB serverless driver provides connection level configurations and SQL level options. Learn how to configure TiDB serverless driver.

> ## Connection level Configurations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connection level configurations
```

> The following configurations are supported in connection level:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the connection level, you can make the following configurations:
```

> | name       | type       | default      | comment                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name       | Type       | Default value     | Description                                                                                                    |
```

|------------|------------|--------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | username   | string     | /            | Username of TiDB Severless                                                                                              |
> | password   | string     | /            | Password of TiDB Severless                                                                                              |
> | host       | string     | /            | Host of TiDB Severless                                                                                                  |
> | database   | string     | test         | Database of TiDB Severless                                                                                              |
> | url        | string     | /            | A single url format as `mysql://username:password@host/database`. The `database` can be skipped to use the default one. |
> | fetch      | function   | global fetch | Custom fetch function                                                                                                   |
> | arrayMode  | bool       | false        | whether to return results as arrays instead of objects                                                                  |
> | fullResult | bool       | false        | whether to return full result object instead of just rows                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `username`   | string     | /            | Username of TiDB Severless                                                                                              |
| `password`   | string     | /            | Password of TiDB Severless                                                                                              |
| `host`       | string     | /            | Host of TiDB Severless                                                                                                  |
| `database`   | string     | test         | Database of TiDB Severless                                                                                              |
| `url`        | string     | /            | A single url format as `mysql://username:password@host/database`. The `database` can be skipped to use the default one. |
| `fetch`      | function   | global fetch | Custom fetch function                                                                                                   |
| `arrayMode`  | bool       | false        | whether to return results as arrays instead of objects                                                                  |
| `fullResult` | bool       | false        | whether to return full result object instead of just rows                                                               |
```

### Database URL

> A single database URL value can be used to configure the `host`, `username`, `password` and `database` values. The following codes are equivalent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the URL of a single database, you can configure values for `host`, `username`, `password`, and `database`. The following codes are equivalent:
```

```ts
const config = {
  host: '<host>',
  username: '<user>',
  password: '<password>',
  database: '<database>'
}

const conn = connect(config)
```

```ts
const conn = connect({url: process.env['DATABASE_URL'] || 'mysql://username:password@host/database'})
```

## SQL level Options

> > Note: SQL level options priority is higher than connection level configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
>
> The SQL-level options have a higher priority over connection-level configurations.
```

> The following options are supported in SQL level:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the SQL level, you can configure the following options:
```

> | option     | type | default | comment                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Option     | Type | Default value | Description                                              |
```

|------------|------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------|

> | arrayMode  | bool | false   | whether to return results as arrays instead of objects    |
> | fullResult | bool | false   | whether to return full result object instead of just rows |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `arrayMode`  | bool | false   | whether to return results as arrays instead of objects    |
| `fullResult` | bool | false   | whether to return full result object instead of rows only |
```

| url        | string     | /            | A single url format as `mysql://username:password@host/database`. The `database` can be skipped to use the default one. |
| fetch      | function   | global fetch | Custom fetch function                                                                                                   |
| arrayMode  | bool       | false        | whether to return results as arrays instead of objects. Set it to `true` to get better performance.                     |
| fullResult | bool       | false        | whether to return full result object instead of just rows. Set it to `true` to get more details.                        |

### Database URL

For the URL of a single database, you can configure values for `host`, `username`, `password`, and `database`. The following codes are equivalent:

```ts
const config = {
  host: '<host>',
  username: '<user>',
  password: '<password>',
  database: '<database>'
}

const conn = connect(config)
```

```ts
const conn = connect({url: process.env['DATABASE_URL'] || 'mysql://username:password@host/database'})
```

> ## SQL level Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## SQL level options
```

> **Note:**
>
> The SQL level options have a higher priority over connection level configurations.

At the SQL level, you can configure the following options:

| Option     | Type | Default value | Description                                                                                         |
|------------|------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `arrayMode`  | bool | false   | whether to return results as arrays instead of objects. Set it to `true` to get better performance. |
| `fullResult` | bool | false   | whether to return full result object instead of rows only. Set it to `true` to get more details.                                         |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For example:
```

---
title: Configure TiDB Cloud Serverless Driver (Beta)

> summary: Learn how to configure TiDB Cloud Serverless Driver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to configure TiDB Cloud Serverless Driver.
```

| `password`   | string     | N/A            | Password of TiDB Serverless                                                                                             |
| `host`       | string     | N/A           | Hostname of TiDB Serverless                                                                                             |
| `database`   | string     | `test`         | Database of TiDB Serverless                                                                                             |
| `url`        | string     | N/A            | A single url format as `mysql://username:password@host/database`. The `database` can be skipped to use the default one. |
| `fetch`      | function   | global fetch | Custom fetch function. For example, you can use the `undici` fetch in node.js.                                          |
| `arrayMode`  | bool       | `false`        | Whether to return results as arrays instead of objects. To get better performance, set it to `true`.                    |
| `fullResult` | bool       | `false`        | Whether to return full result object instead of just rows. To get more detailed results, set it to `true`.              |

### Database URL

> An url can be used to replace the `host`, `username`, `password`, and `database`. The following codes are equivalent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `url` is configured, there is no need to configure `host`, `username`, `password`, and `database` separately. The following codes are equivalent:
```
